README.md, before:

# Master's Thesis

My master's thesis source code.

## Assignment

Let's brainstorm the assignment here. It should be some base research with
application in astronomy because my supervisor will be Petr Škoda.

The structure is supposed to be following. An interesting research topic
with vast literature review. Then experiment on well know machine learning
dataset. Lastly there should be experiment with application in astronomy.
There should be great machine learning topic or at least balance between
interesting algorithm and application in astronomy. The possible application
in astronomy and available data must be discussed before assignment will be
submitted.

I would like also discuss human brain inspiration of area I will choose to work
on because there will be direct link to human intelligence or learning.
This will probably lead to usage of neural networks with which I would like to
work in this master's thesis.

Deep Learning book by Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville should be a great
source of inspiration: http://www.deeplearningbook.org/. Especially the third
part on deep learning research.

OpenAI's Request for Research is good resource for inspiration:
https://blog.openai.com/requests-for-research-2/

Ideas are ranked from most to least interesting ones.

First idea is *transfer learning* which is for sure interesting research
area but I think very hard and not that popular.
For application in astronomy see my bachelor's thesis.
The thing that it is not that popular is great as it may leave space for
interesting discoveries. The
[chapter 15](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/contents/representation.html)
of the Deep Learning book provides some information.
For example a great work would be to learn network on MNIST and apply it do
recognition of number on post boxes.

Second idea is *generative adversarial networks*. For example synthetic data
generation or it might be possibly used for transfer learning
(domain adaptation). Next option is noise reduction and data reparation.
Synthetic data generation would enable to learning very deep networks.
But how to train general adversarial network with such big data beforehand.

Third idea is *unsupervised learning* that is very needed area of research
and very hard. The applications are obvious as there is many unlabeled data
in astronomy.

Forth idea is *recurrent neural networks* to predict some event. For example
explosion of a stellar object from photometry.
First idea is *meta learning* which I am currently most excited about
but I need to do a lot of reading to get know what is possible to do
and what are the applications.

Fifth idea is *reinforcement learning* that would be very nice as it is
an exciting area of research but the application to astronomy is not obvious
now to me. Maybe interactive learning where human select what he want to find
is large data and the network is learning what she or he want to find.

Sixth idea is *natural language processing* which seems unsuitable for
astronomy.

Commit message:

Add anomaly detection to assignment brainstorm

README.md, after:

# Master's Thesis

My master's thesis source code.

## Assignment

Let's brainstorm the assignment here. It should be some base research with
application in astronomy because my supervisor will be Petr Škoda.

The structure is supposed to be following. An interesting research topic
with vast literature review. Then experiment on well know machine learning
dataset. Lastly there should be experiment with application in astronomy.
There should be great machine learning topic or at least balance between
interesting algorithm and application in astronomy. The possible application
in astronomy and available data must be discussed before assignment will be
submitted.

I would like also discuss human brain inspiration of area I will choose to work
on because there will be direct link to human intelligence or learning.
This will probably lead to usage of neural networks with which I would like to
work in this master's thesis.

Deep Learning book by Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville should be a great
source of inspiration: http://www.deeplearningbook.org/. Especially the third
part on deep learning research.

OpenAI's Request for Research is good resource for inspiration:
https://blog.openai.com/requests-for-research-2/

Ideas are ranked from most to least interesting ones.

First idea is *transfer learning* which is for sure interesting research
area but I think very hard and not that popular.
For application in astronomy see my bachelor's thesis.
The thing that it is not that popular is great as it may leave space for
interesting discoveries. The
[chapter 15](http://www.deeplearningbook.org/contents/representation.html)
of the Deep Learning book provides some information.
For example a great work would be to learn network on MNIST and apply it do
recognition of number on post boxes.

Second idea is *generative adversarial networks*. For example synthetic data
generation or it might be possibly used for transfer learning
(domain adaptation). Next option is noise reduction and data reparation.
Synthetic data generation would enable to learning very deep networks.
But how to train general adversarial network with such big data beforehand.

Third idea is *unsupervised learning* that is very needed area of research
and very hard. The applications are obvious as there is many unlabeled data
in astronomy.

Forth idea is *meta learning* which I am currently most excited about
but I need to do a lot of reading to get know what is possible to do
and what are the applications.

Fifth idea is *recurrent neural networks* to predict some event. For example
explosion of a stellar object from photometry. Anomaly detection in stellar
catalogues to search for interesting objects.

Sixth idea is *reinforcement learning* that would be very nice as it is
an exciting area of research but the application to astronomy is not obvious
now to me. Maybe interactive learning where human select what he want to find
is large data and the network is learning what she or he want to find.

Seventh idea is *natural language processing* which seems unsuitable for
astronomy.
